Write once run anywhere/README.md, before:

*Write once run anywhere*
=========================

**All mobile app developers know the problem of supporting multiple mobile systems: Different languages! What should we do with our new mobile app idea? Should we develop our app in multiple languages in parallel? Should we use container-frameworks like Apache Cordova and develop in HTML/CSS/JavaScript?**

With my talk I show you another approach to develop a mobile app once with one code basis, one language and one API using RoboVM and JavaFXPorts reducing cost and time-to-market. But there is more: You get a system independent desktop application for free, thank Java!

A big part of my talk is a live demo, where I demonstrate how to develop a mobile application with Java for iOS, Android and desktop systems. I show you how to create the user interface in code and how to use a UI editor. The UI of the demo application uses JavaFX and consists of multiple scenes and dialogs. At the end of the demo I’ll run the app on a desktop system and on iOS- and Android-devices. Let’s use technologies we know like Java to enter unknown territories like iOS (and Android)!

To fully understand this talk the attendees should have basic knowledge of Java. After the talk all attendees get a link to download the [slides](slides) and [source](source) files of the live coding part.

|             |                      |
| ----------- | -------------------- |
| Duration:   | ~ 45 minutes         |
| Attendance: | 8+ attendees         |
| Audience:   | software engineers   |
| Level:      | beginner             |
| Handout:    | slides, source files |

[https://www.fihlon.ch/talks/write-once-run-anywhere/](https://www.fihlon.ch/talks/write-once-run-anywhere/)

Commit message:

Updated description of my talk about mobile development with Java FX Ports

Write once run anywhere/README.md, after:

*Write once run anywhere — Mobile Apps für Android und iOS*
===========================================================

**All mobile app developers know the problem of supporting multiple mobile systems: Different languages! What should we do with our new mobile app idea? Should we develop our app in multiple languages in parallel? Should we use container-frameworks like Apache Cordova and develop in HTML/CSS/JavaScript?**

With my talk I show you another approach to develop a mobile app once with one code basis, one language and one API using Java and Java FX reducing cost and time-to-market. But there is more: You get a system independent desktop application for free, thank Java!

In the first part of my talk I show you the theories of the technologies used to write a *real system independent* application with Java and Java FX. The second part is code driven and I show you a *real world application* which was written using the presented technologies and is available in the app stores for iOS and Android devices.

If you attend my talk you will be able to write an application which runs on desktop and mobile systems using the same code base. Let’s use technologies we know like Java to enter unknown territories like iOS (and Android)!

To fully understand this talk the attendees should have basic knowledge of Java. After the talk all attendees get a link to download the [slides](slides) and [source](source) files of the live coding part.

|             |                      |
| ----------- | -------------------- |
| Duration:   | ~ 45 minutes         |
| Attendance: | 8+ attendees         |
| Audience:   | software engineers   |
| Level:      | beginner             |
| Handout:    | slides, source files |

[https://www.fihlon.ch/talks/write-once-run-anywhere/](https://www.fihlon.ch/talks/write-once-run-anywhere/)
